# Pwc-Competition-July2020
Pwc Competition held in July 2020. 

Repository contains:
1. Macro(xls) and Airchina(xls): Data used for SARIMAX Model
2. Transport_data_final(xls): data for visualization 
3. Pwc_prediction(ipynb): code for model selection, training and predicting 

Objective: Forecast the Operation for Aviation Industry for the next 12 months

Data Source: China Air Transport Association & Airchina official website
Data Description: 
 - Macro: 4 Transportation Metrics of China Aviation Industry from Jan 2018 to June 2020 (aggregated Monthly)
    1. Total Traffic Turnover (Billion Ton-Kilometers): Product of transportation volume and average haul distance
    2. Passenger Volume(Ten Thousand People) : Number of passengers transported
    3. Passenger Turnover (Billion Person-Kilometers): Product of passenger volume and passenger distance
    4. Passenger Throughput (Ten Thousand People): Number of passengers entering and leaving the area
    
  - Airchina: 3 Transportation Metrics of Airchina from Jan 2018 to June 2020 (aggregated Monthly)
    1. Available Seats Kilometers/ASK (Million) : Product of available seats number and kilometers flown number. Evaluates SUPPLY
    2. Passenger Turnover (Billion Person-Kilometers): Product of passenger volume and passenger distance. Evaluates SUPPLY
    3. Load Factor(%): Percentage of available seating capacity that is filled with passengers. Evalutes EFFICIENCY
    
Model Selection: Time Series Prediction (SARIMAX)   
Assumptions : 
1. The autoregressive model relies on the nearest 4-5 historical values and prediction error values (March to June 2020) 🡪 p,q ∈ (4,5)
2. Due to the data instability caused by COVID-19 , there will not be train/test split. The model is trained on the all data, while the optimal model is obtained by evaluating AIC through parameters iterating. 
3. Prediction will be generated on the next 12 months. 

------------------------
Upon prediction generated by SARIMAX, we develop a parameter tunning model based on the effect of several 'Black Swan' factors on the results. Details can be seen on the 'Black Swan' sheet of Transport_data_final.xls, where final prediction combining both machine learning and manual adjusting can be found as well. 

